h1. Style

Style, written by Jack Kinsella ("blog":http://www.jackkinsella.ie), helps you improve your English language writing. Based on stylistic advice given by authors such as Skunk and White, Bill Bryson and George Orwell, Style scans your text and markup files then lists issues found. Currently it spots the following problems:

* *Use of 600 different clichés*
  He pushed the envelope
* *Use of 11 different forms of passive tense.*
 The letter was sent
* *Broken links*
http://www.thiswebsite404s.com
* *Ugly words*
The government utilized the resources.
* *Speaking in generalities*
Many people think that
* *Useless words*
It was a very fast app.
* *Repeating the same non structural word within a sentence*
Trask makes an excellent point, forcefully and with taste, in his excellent work 'Mind The Gaffe'
* *Using latin abbreviations within your text*
E.g.
* *Spelling mistakes*
addd
* *Repeating the same word consecutively* 
We went to the the shopping centre.
* *Excess white space*
We went   to the shopping centre.

_Linguistic analysis is a hard problem, so you cannot expect perfect results. Think of Style as guidelines to steer you in the right direction._

h2. Installation 

Install Style using Ruby gems:

@gem install style@

Next install Hunspell, an open source spell-checker that Style depends upon.

@brew install hunspell@

h2. Usage

Style is command line only. Cd into the directory with the files you'd like to scan, then type 

@style filename@

After a few seconds Style will print a list problems it finds.

Style is pipe friendly. 

@cat filename | style@

h2. Dependencies

h3. Gems

"punkt-segmenter":https://github.com/lfcipriani/punkt-segmenter 
Splits text into sentences.

"colorize":https://github.com/fazibear/colorize 
Formats terminal output in red,green and other colours.

"entagger":http://engtagger.rubyforge.org/
Assigns parts of speech tags to English text based on a lookup dictionary and a set of probability values.

h3. Other

"Hunspell":http://hunspell.sourceforge.net/
An open source spell checker used by Open Office, Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome.

h2. Contributing

Contribution is welcomed and encouraged, although no modifications will be accepted if they are not accompanied by passing tests.

h3. Parts of Speech

 | Tag | Part Of Speech | Examples |
  |CC      | Conjunction, coordinating |              and, or |
  | CD      | Adjective, cardinal number              | 3, fifteen |
  | DET     | Determiner                              | this, each, some |
  EX      Pronoun, existential there              there
  FW      Foreign words
  IN      Preposition / Conjunction               for, of, although, that
  JJ      Adjective                               happy, bad
  JJR     Adjective, comparative                  happier, worse
  JJS     Adjective, superlative                  happiest, worst
  LS      Symbol, list item                       A, A.
  MD      Verb, modal                             can, could, 'll
  NN      Noun                                    aircraft, data
  NNP     Noun, proper                            London, Michael
  NNPS    Noun, proper, plural                    Australians, Methodists
  NNS     Noun, plural                            women, books
  PDT     Determiner, prequalifier                quite, all, half
  POS     Possessive                              's, '
  PRP     Determiner, possessive second           mine, yours
  PRPS    Determiner, possessive                  their, your
  RB      Adverb                                  often, not, very, here
  RBR     Adverb, comparative                     faster
  RBS     Adverb, superlative                     fastest
  RP      Adverb, particle                        up, off, out
  SYM     Symbol                                  *
  TO      Preposition                             to
  UH      Interjection                            oh, yes, mmm
  VB      Verb, infinitive                        take, live
  VBD     Verb, past tense                        took, lived
  VBG     Verb, gerund                            taking, living
  VBN     Verb, past/passive participle           taken, lived
  VBP     Verb, base present form                 take, live
  VBZ     Verb, present 3SG -s form               takes, lives
  WDT     Determiner, question                    which, whatever
  WP      Pronoun, question                       who, whoever
  WPS     Determiner, possessive & question       whose
  WRB     Adverb, question                        when, how, however
  PP      Punctuation, sentence ender             ., !, ?
  PPC     Punctuation, comma                      ,
  PPD     Punctuation, dollar sign                $
  PPL     Punctuation, quotation mark left        ``
  PPR     Punctuation, quotation mark right       ''
  PPS     Punctuation, colon, semicolon, elipsis  :, ..., -
  LRB     Punctuation, left bracket               (, {, [
  RRB     Punctuation, right bracket              ), }, ]


h2. Roadmap

0 Make faster using threading and staggered output 

1 Handle HTML and textile files.
2 Refactor the collection methods.
3 Capitalization issues -- global fix needed.
4 More useless words.
5 Troublesome words from Stunk.
6 Refactor i.e. to use tokenized stuff.
7 Refactor next word stuff.
8 Tense switches

h2. Contributors

Jack Kinsella
Robert Dooley, developer in Galway Western, Ireland

h2. Licence

Style is released under the "MIT license":www.opensource.org/licenses/MIT
Copyright "Jack Kinsella":www.jackkinsella.ie

